Yahya/create anthropic (#19024)
DataDog/integrations-core: anthropic/README.md

# Anthropic

## Overview

> Monitor, troubleshoot, and evaluate your LLM-powered applications, such as chatbots or data extraction tools,

Reviewer: To me, this reads as if Anthropic is the one doing the monitoring, troubleshooting, and evaluating. Should this be reworded to emphasize that the integration is for monitoring Anthropic-based LLM applications?

Author: Feel free to propose a rewording and let's have our PM @barieom validate it.

Reviewer: @barieom Do you agree with this? If you don't think it's an issue, we can leave it as-is. My overall recommendation is to reword the sentence. For example:

> Use the Anthropic integration to monitor, troubleshoot, and evaluate your LLM-powered applications, such as chatbots or data extraction tools.

This makes it clear that it's the integration (and thus implying that Datadog is involved) that helps monitor your LLM applications.

Reviewer 2: yes that works!

> Use the Anthropic integration to monitor, troubleshoot, and evaluate your LLM-powered applications, such as chatbots or data extraction tools.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the Anthropic integration to monitor, troubleshoot, and evaluate your LLM-powered applications, such as chatbots or data extraction tools, using Anthropic's models. 
```

using Anthropic.

If you are building LLM applications, use LLM Observability to investigate the root cause of issues,
monitor operational performance, and evaluate the quality, privacy, and safety of your LLM applications.

See the [LLM Observability tracing view video](https://imgix.datadoghq.com/video/products/llm-observability/expedite-troubleshooting.mp4?fm=webm&fit=max) for an example of how you can investigate a trace.

## Setup

> ### LLM Observability: Get end-to-end visibility into your LLM application using Anthropic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: This is subjective, but I think you could remove this heading and not lose any context. If you do remove it, we could increment the heading levels in the Setup section, which might make it easier to scan.

Author: We would rather keep it as is. This is what we have for all integrations for LLM Observability, the integrations can be used with APM alone as well so we need to clarify using the heading.

Reviewer 2: Yes let's keep it - it's very self-descriptive and very easy to understand what this integration is for

You can enable LLM Observability in different environments. Follow the appropriate setup based on your scenario:

#### Installation for Python

##### If you do not have the Datadog Agent:
1. Install the `ddtrace` package:

  ```shell
    pip install ddtrace
  ```

> 2. Start your application with the following command, enabling Agentless mode:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2.  Start your application using the following command to enable Agentless mode:
```

  ```shell
    DD_SITE=<YOUR_DATADOG_SITE> DD_API_KEY=<YOUR_API_KEY> DD_LLMOBS_ENABLED=1 DD_LLMOBS_AGENTLESS_ENABLED=1 DD_LLMOBS_ML_APP=<YOUR_ML_APP_NAME> ddtrace-run python <YOUR_APP>.py
  ```

##### If you already have the Datadog Agent installed:
1. Make sure the Agent is running and that APM and StatsD are enabled. For example, use the following command with Docker:

  ```shell
  docker run -d \
    --cgroupns host \
    --pid host \
    -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock:ro \
    -v /proc/:/host/proc/:ro \
    -v /sys/fs/cgroup/:/host/sys/fs/cgroup:ro \
    -e DD_API_KEY=<DATADOG_API_KEY> \
    -p 127.0.0.1:8126:8126/tcp \
    -p 127.0.0.1:8125:8125/udp \
    -e DD_DOGSTATSD_NON_LOCAL_TRAFFIC=true \
    -e DD_APM_ENABLED=true \
    gcr.io/datadoghq/agent:latest
  ```

2. If you haven't already, install the `ddtrace` package:

  ```shell
    pip install ddtrace
  ```

> 3. Start your application using the `ddtrace-run` command to automatically enable tracing:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. To automatically enable tracing, start your application using the `ddtrace-run` command:
```

  ```shell
     DD_SITE=<YOUR_DATADOG_SITE> DD_API_KEY=<YOUR_API_KEY> DD_LLMOBS_ENABLED=1 DD_LLMOBS_ML_APP=<YOUR_ML_APP_NAME> ddtrace-run python <your_app>.py
  ```

**Note**: If the Agent is running on a custom host or port, set `DD_AGENT_HOST` and `DD_TRACE_AGENT_PORT` accordingly.

##### If you are running LLM Observability in a serverless environment (AWS Lambda):
1. Install the **Datadog-Python** and **Datadog-Extension** Lambda layers as part of your AWS Lambda setup.
2. Enable LLM Observability by setting the following environment variables:

  ```shell
     DD_SITE=<YOUR_DATADOG_SITE> DD_API_KEY=<YOUR_API_KEY> DD_LLMOBS_ENABLED=1 DD_LLMOBS_ML_APP=<YOUR_ML_APP_NAME>
  ```

**Note**: In serverless environments, Datadog automatically flushes spans at the end of the Lambda function.

##### Automatic Anthropic tracing

> The Anthropic integration provides automatic tracing for the Anthropic Python SDK's chat message calls. This captures latency, errors, input/output messages, and token usage for Anthropic operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Anthropic integration allows for automatic tracing of chat message calls made by the Anthropic Python SDK, capturing latency, errors, input/output messages, and token usage during Anthropic operations.
```

The following methods are traced for both synchronous and asynchronous Anthropic operations:
- Chat messages (including streamed calls): `Anthropic().messages.create()`, `AsyncAnthropic().messages.create()`
- Streamed chat messages: `Anthropic().messages.stream()`, `AsyncAnthropic().messages.stream()`

No additional setup is required for these methods.

> ##### Validation
> Validate that LLM Observability is properly capturing spans by checking your application logs for successful span creation. You can also run the following command to check the status of the `dd-trace` integration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Validation

Validate that LLM Observability is properly capturing spans by checking your application logs for successful span creation. You can also run the following command to check the status of the `dd-trace` integration:
```

  ```shell
  ddtrace-run --info
  ```

Look for the following message to confirm the setup:

  ```shell
  Agent error: None
  ```

> ##### Debugging
> If you encounter issues during setup, enable debug logging by passing the `--debug` flag:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Debugging

If you encounter issues during setup, enable debug logging by passing the `--debug` flag:
```

# Anthropic

## Overview

> Monitor, troubleshoot, and evaluate your LLM-powered applications, such as chatbots or data extraction tools,
> using Anthropic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the Anthropic integration to monitor, troubleshoot, and evaluate your LLM-powered applications, such as chatbots or data extraction tools.
```
